1. Image Layer
A Docker image layer is an immutable, read-only filesystem change that stacks with other layers to form a complete Docker image. Each layer represents a specific instruction in a Dockerfile that modifies the filesystem, 
such as adding files, installing packages, or modifying configurations. 

2. Image Registry 
An image registry is a centralized storage system used to host and distribute container images. It acts as a catalog where developers can "push" (upload) their built images and "pull" (download) them for deployment 
to various environments, such as local machines or Kubernetes clusters.

3. Why Image Registry Require?
Centralised Storage: Provides a single location to manage container images, preventing them from being scattered across different systems.
Version Control: Uses tags and digests to identify different versions of an image, allowing you to roll back to previous versions or ensure specific builds are deployed.
Access Management: Controls who can view, upload, or download images through Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).
CI/CD Integration: Serves as a bridge between the build stage and the deployment stage in automated pipelines.

4. Types of Registries
Public Registries: Open to anyone; ideal for open-source projects and general-purpose images. Docker Hub is the most common example.
Private Registries: Restricted to specific users or organisations. They are used for proprietary code and offer enhanced security features like vulnerability scanning. 

5. Image Naming Convention
A Docker image name, also known as an image reference, follows a specific structure: [HOST[:PORT]/]NAMESPACE/REPOSITORY[:TAG]
Required Structure Components
Component 	            Description	                                                                                                                                   Example
HOST	                  Specifies the registry location. If omitted, it defaults to Docker Hub (docker.io).	                                                           ghcr.io
NAMESPACE	              A user or organization name. If omitted for images on Docker Hub, it defaults to library, which is reserved for Docker Official Images.	       dockersamples
REPOSITORY	            The name of the image project, often referred to as the image name by users.	                                                                 example-voting-app-vote
TAG	                    An optional identifier to specify a version or variant of the image. If no tag is provided, Docker defaults to latest.	                       pr-311
A full example of an image name is ghcr.io/dockersamples/example-voting-app-vote:pr-311

6. Tags & Version
Docker tags are text labels used to identify and manage different versions or variants of a Docker image. You can tag an image during the build process or after it has been built using specific commands.

7. Image Distribution Process
The standard process for distributing a Docker image involves building the image, pushing it to a container registry, and then allowing other systems to pull and run it. 
The core component for distribution is the Docker Registry, which acts as a storage and distribution hub for container images

8. The general process is as follows:
Build the Image: An image is built from a Dockerfile, which is a text file containing all the commands needed to create the image (e.g., specifying a base image, installing software, copying application code).
Command: docker build -t yourusername/imagename:tag.

Tag the Image: Tagging involves giving the image a human-readable name and version (e.g., yourusername/myapp:1.0) which also indicates the target registry and repository.
Push to a Registry: The tagged image is uploaded to a container registry, such as Docker Hub (the default public registry) or a private registry (like Amazon ECR or Google Artifact Registry). This makes the image available to others.

Command: docker push yourusername/imagename:tag
(Requires prior login using docker login)

Pull and Run the Image: Other users or systems with access to the registry can then download the image to their local machine and run it as a container.
Command to pull: docker pull yourusername/imagename:tag
Command to run: docker run yourusername/imagename:tag 

9. Role of Image Registry in CI/CD Pipelines
acting as the critical link between the build and deployment phases, while ensuring efficiency, consistency, and security


